Devon Lewis
Web Developer / Software Engineer
1050 N Ogden St  |  Denver, CO 80218 |  661-718-6975  
devonlewis808@gmail.com  |  www.devonlewis.carbonmade.com horizontal line 


Versatile Front-end developer with 3+ years of experience designing, developing and managing rich web applications. Specialized in JavaScript, React, Angular and responsive design. Strives to identify areas of improvements in the code base and help contribute in refactoring for efficiency. Solid understanding of writing modular and maintainable code and experienced in HTML, CSS, JavaScript and is an active GitHub contributor.
EDUCATION
Boston University - Master’s Degree, Web Application Development
University of California, Santa Barbara - Bachelor's Degree, Communications
FREELANCE EXPERIENCE
Conaxion Inc,  Remote - Full Stack Developer
AUGUST 2019 - PRESENT
* Used React Library and Redux in the app for a comprehensive means of managing state within the JavaScript Application and used HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and React 16 to design dynamic and web compatible pages.
* Developed fetch services for the backend REST API and mapped them to the frontend using React 16 to display lists and content unique to each user.
“Mastering Me” Website,  Remote - Web Master
MARCH 2020
* Increase physical book sales by providing a unique platform for customers to purchase her book.
* Designed dynamic and web compatible pages using HTML5, CSS and JavaScript and used GoDaddy’s servers for hosting and FileZilla as a means of file management.
SKILLS
Languages:
Frameworks:
Libraries:
Platforms:
Tools:
Paradigms:
Storage:
Misc:
	HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, TypeScript
Angular 8
ReactJS, Handlebars, Nodejs
Unix, Windows 7, 8, 9, 10, Mac OS X
Webpack, Postman, NPM
Object-Oriented (OOP), Functional Programming
PostgreSQL, MongoDB
REST API, Git, GitHub, Slack, Trello
	RECENT WEB PROJECTS
Trip Calculator Application https://fathomless-fortress-87754.herokuapp.com/
REACT, REDUX, JAVASCRIPT, HTML, CSS
A responsive, single page application that estimates how much surplus money users will have each month. This calculation is based on the users monthly expenses and income. It’s minimal interface allows for the input and deletion of recurring and non-recurring expenses after a user has registered.
Surplus Budget Application https://surplus-devon-lewis.herokuapp.com/
EXPRESS JS, HANDLEBARS, NODE JS, JAVASCRIPT, HTML, CSS
A responsive, single page application that estimates how much surplus money users will have each month. This calculation is based on the users monthly expenses and income. It’s minimal interface allows for the input and deletion of recurring and non-recurring expenses after a user has registered.